
Script to evaluate the specificity of a DNA extraction method. For this, the coverage amplitude, the depth per base and the average depth of readings per base are calculated.

## Share your thinking process here

1. What is the bioinformatics challenge your scripts solve?
Script to evaluate the specificity of a DNA extraction method.

2. Why is important to solve this bioinformatics challenge (think like the scientist that requested the solution to the problem at hand)?
The importance of this bioinformatic analysis lies in the fact that it is possible to evaluate the specificity of a new DNA extraction method and to know how reliable it is. In addition, it helps to infer possible errors in the process that may exist.

3. How do your scripts solve the bioinformatics challenge? (Explain briefly how your scripts work)
The script was made in BASH (coverage_calculator.sh), it receives as parameter the path of the file to analyze.
This script calculates the coverage amplitude, the depth per base and the average depth of readings per base for each region reported in the input file.
Finally, a temporary file similar to the output file (coverage_calculations.tsv) is created to graph the results using a script (plotter.R) developed in R, which is called from the same script coverage_calculator.sh. The temporary file is deleted at the end of the graphing process.

Example to run the coverage_calculator.sh script:

coverage_calculator.sh ../../inputfile.tsv

4. Show a tree description of the final file structure of your process directory (see ../README.md for an example)

bioinformatician-001-egm/		## Repository that contains the bioinformatics tool to evaluate the specificity of a new DNA extraction method.
├── process				    ## This directory contains the scripts in BASH and R.
│   ├── README.md			## A README file that explains the process to evaluate the specificity of a new method of DNA extraction. Also, how 	|						the main script runs.
│   ├── plotter.R			## Script to graph the results of coverage amplitude vs. average depth of readings per base.
│   └── coverage_calculator.sh		## Main script made in BASH to calculate the amplitude of coverage, depth per base and average depth of 	 |									    readings per base for each region reported in the input file. Also, graph in R coverage amplitude vs. 	  |									     average depth of readings per base.
├── README.md				## This README file, explaining the test
├── results-examples	    		## We provide examples of the requested outputs, your results should be as close to this as possible
│   ├── coverage_calculations.tsv	## An example of the requested results, generated by Winter Genomics team
│   └── final_report.md		## An example of the report that answers the original questions posed by the PROBLEM DESCRIPTION
└── test-materials			## In this directory we provide the necessary data to generate the requested results
    └── test-data
        └── raw_coverages_by_base.tsv    ## A raw coverage file. Was generated with bedtools v2.25.0 using the -d option, using a public BAM file and a focused BED file for the loci of interest

